# Web Rendering and Interacting

The goal here is to propose a web interface to programme developed on top of _TiledLand_.
Considering that user are not necessary professional of interactive web technologies, we seek for simple but powerful python-based solutions.

Why not classical GUI ? 
The main advantage of Web rendering is that, game/player server and the human interface can be on different machines.
With Web application, we expect that nothing need to be installed on the interactive device other than a web-brother.
The main conter part is the cost on computing ressources generated by client/server architecture.

## Quick overview: 

_Python_ is not directly interpretative by the user web-brother. 
Several solutions allow developers to abstract web technologies - mainly HTML, JavaScript - by proposing _Python_-based web-interaction library.

- [Streamlit](https://docs.streamlit.io) - First tested solution. Very simple to present animated data and add some classical button or other input. It find its limits with huge dashboard or complex interactions.
- [Dash by plotly](https://dash.plotly.com/tutorial) - Similar philosophy than Streamlit, i.e. oriented toward data visualization.
- [Remi](https://pypi.org/project/remi/) - For REMote Interface, more oriented as a Web GUI.

Actually we tried `Streamlit` and `Remi` and conclude on the dominance of `Remi` for our usage.

## Streamlit :

Regarding tutorial, _streamlit_ allows for interresting data visualization and simple interaction.
Test a first interactive program :

```sh
pip install streamlit
streamlit run demo/ihm-streamlit/01-basic.py
```

The solution allows for custom _HTML_ with a empty widget.
Test map rendering : 

- `streamlit run demo/ihm-streamlit/02-rendering.py`.

However, it is not easy to get control on a program loops, with interaction. 
For instance, _streamlit_ relies on a session state dictionary to keep variable value from a iteration to another.

The alternative: https://plotly.com/examples/ seems better structures.


## Plotly :

We will try this solution some day...


## Remi :

A first demo solution is proposed with basic script :

```sh
pip install remi
python3 demo/ihm-remi/01-basic.py
```

_Remi_ is built on object inheritance. 
Your application class should inherit from `remi.App` class and then redefine the `main` method :

```python
import remi.gui as gui
from remi import start, App

class MyApp(App):
    def __init__(self, *args):
        super(MyApp, self).__init__(*args)

    def main(self):
        # Initialize a root GUI Compoenent (a vertical box for instance)
        container= gui.VBox( width=400, height=400 )
        # define all GUI components initially draw the interface
        # connect events trigering (typically button) to an event callback method
        # return the root graphical object.
        return container


# starts the web server
start(MyApp)
```

The `main` method init the graphical user intercafe.
It defines the initial windows components and how there are structured the one with the others. 
This method is also used to intialize event handlers associated to the instanciate component.

In fact it is a verry classical GUI programming interface, and _Remi_ inplements it efficiently.

Finally, _Remi_ allows a call periodically to method to generate calculation at a fixed time frequency. 
This feature is triggerred with `update_interval` parrameter at start time, and will call the `idle` method.

```python
class MyApp(remi.App):
    #... 
    
    def idle(self):
        # step your simulation and redraw for instance

# starts the web server
remi.start(MyApp, address='0.0.0.0', port=20014, update_interval=0.1)
```

Cf. `demo/ihm-remi/02-interact.py` script for a complete example of interactive _SVG_ frame.

For _tiledLAnd_ rendering, the main used _GUI_ composnent will be `SVG`. 
With _TiledLand_ _Artist_ and _Map_, code will looklike :

```python
frame = gui.Svg( width=400, height=300 )
container.append(frame)

map.draw( artist )
textsvg= artist.content()
frame.add_child( 'content', textsvg )
artist.clear()
```

The `demo/ihm-remi/03-simulation.py` script proposes an entire examples of _TiledLand_ integration with _Remi_.


