# Web Rendering

The goal here is to propose a web interface to programme develloped on top of _TiledLand_.
Considering that user are not necessary professional of interactive web technologies, we seek for simple but powerfull python-based solutions.

Why not classical GUI ? 
The main advantage of Web rendering is that, game/player server and the human interface can be 2 different machine and nothing need to be installed on the interactive device. 
The main inconveniant is the cost on computing ressources generated by client/server architecture. 

For classical GUI (Graphic User Interface), you can see for _tkinter_, _PyQt_ or _PyGame_.
However, if you seak for performances, maibe search with another language (_C_ + _RayLib_ for instance...).

## Quick overview: 

Studied candidates:

- [Streamlit](https://docs.streamlit.io) - First tested solution. Verry simple to present animated data and add some classical button or other input. It find its limits with huge dashboard or complex interactions.
- [Dash by plotly](https://dash.plotly.com/tutorial) - Similar philosophy than Streamlit, i.e. orineted toward data visualization.
- [Remi](https://pypi.org/project/remi/) - For REMote Interface, more oriented as a Web GUI.

To notice that we push aside the web based app solution not focalized on graphicalrendering like _flask_ or _django_.

## Streamlit and Plotly:

Regarding tutorial, _streamlit_ allows for interresting data visualisation and simple interaction.
Test a first interactive program :

```sh
pip install streamlit
streamlit run example/web/streamlit-00-basic.py
```

The solution allows for custom _HTML_ with a empty widget.
Test scene rendering : 

- `streamlit run example/web/streamlit-01-rendering.py`.

However, it is not easy to get controle on a program loops, with interaction. 
For instance, _streamlit_ relies on a session state dictionnary to keep varaible value from a iteration to another.

The alternative: https://plotly.com/examples/ seems better structures.


## Remi :

_Remi_

```sh
pip install remi
python3 example/web/remi-00-basic.py
```
